 1/In statistics, hypothesis tests are used to test whether or not some hypothesis about a population parameter is true.

To perform a hypothesis test in the real world, researchers will obtain a random sample from the population and perform a hypothesis test on the sample data, 
using a null and alternative hypothesis:

Null Hypothesis (H0): The sample data occurs purely from chance.
Alternative Hypothesis (HA): The sample data is influenced by some non-random cause.
 If the p-value of the hypothesis test is less than some significance level (e.g. α = .05), 
 then we can reject the null hypothesis and conclude that we have sufficient evidence to say that the alternative hypothesis is true.

Example 1: Biology
Hypothesis tests are often used in biology to determine whether some new treatment, fertilizer, pesticide, chemical, etc. causes increased growth, stamina, immunity,
etc. in plants or animals.


2/ Parametric tests are used if the data is normally distributed .A parametric statistical test makes an assumption about the population parameters 
 and the distributions that the data came from. These types of test includes t-tests,z-tests and anova tests, which assume data is from normal distribution.
 for example:



3/ z-test is a statistical test used to determine whether two population means are different when the variances are known and 
the sample size is large. In z-test mean of the population is compared.The parameters used are population mean and population standard deviation. 
Z-test is used to validate a hypothesis that the sample drawn belongs to the same population.
Ho: Sample mean is same as the population mean(Null hypothesis)
Ha: Sample mean is not same as the population mean(Alternate hypothesis)
z = (x — μ) / (σ / √n),
where , x=sample mean, u=population mean, σ / √n = population standard deviation.
If z value is less than critical value accept null hypothesis else reject null hypothesis.




4/T-test-In t-test the mean of the two given samples are compared.A t-test is used when the population parameters (mean and standard deviation) are not known.
Paired T-Test-Tests for the difference between two variables from the same population( pre- and post test score).
For example- In a training program performance score of the trainee before and after completion of the program.
A scientist observed that the coronavirus that spread in India appears to be less virulent than the virus strain in the United States.
 You would want to compare how long a person recovers from COVID-19 infection between countries. 
Thus, you can compare the number of days people in India recover from the disease compared to those living in the United States. 
In this situation, you may use the t-test.




5/Independent T-test- The independent t-test which is also called the two sample t-test or student’s t-test,
is a statistical test that determines whether there is a statistically significant difference between the means in two unrelated groups.
For example -comparing boys and girls in a population.
One sample t-test- The mean of a single group is compared with a given mean.
For example-to check the increase and decrease in sales if the average sales is given.
t = (x1 — x2) / (σ / √n1 + σ / √n2),
where x1 and x2 are mean of sample 1 and sample 2 respectively.
